---
id: 728
title: Environmental issues and climate change
date: 2013-05-06T03:03:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.wiseusemedia.com/?p=728
permalink: /2013/05/06/environmental-issues-and-climate-change/
categories:
  - General
---
We all know the score by now&#8230; something to do with us killing our own home&#8230; literally bleeding it dry of natural resources, sweeping away it&#8217;s tender green forests to make way for our sprawling suburban chaos. replacing thousand year old trees with crops that will last a year, devouring land for natural non-renewable resources, all for a short lived profit. In the end, none of us win, our planet will be barren and our children destitute.

Does climate change really exist? Is this period of global warming simply a case of natural change or is it really caused by us? Do we even really care? I mean, when you look at it, China continue to devour the west&#8217;s resources just to fuel it&#8217;s ever increasing economy. America continues to drive it&#8217;s fuel driven economy, whilst Europe tries to cope with dwindling resources, encompassed in increasing taxes on fuel and just about everything else imported, manufactured or produced.

It may not be a case of our planet dying, but more of us running out of the materials we need to fuel our passion for material possessions. Just like the UK&#8217;s housing crisis, the world as a whole is suffering from a materials crisis. We&#8217;ve relied too long on unsustainable natural resources. The century of the Happy may just be upon us.

Wind power, solar, renewable resources, carbon reduction schemes, ethical products, re-use, recycled products. They all go some way to reducing the problem, but in effect, they&#8217;re just gimmicks, design to make us feel better about what we&#8217;re doing in our day to day lives. It doesn&#8217;t get us around the real issues ad instead sweeps them under the proverbial carpet, by giving us an immediate option. Solutions really needed to be sought to replace resources with items that don&#8217;t need the energy consumption or fuel we&#8217;ve become so used to consuming.

Look at recycling efforts in the west. The price of steel, copper and Gold continue to rise on the stock markets, even though we&#8217;re recycling more and more of it. China is consuming these materials at such as rate that even with continued mining and extraction, coupled with recycling, there still isn&#8217;t enough to go round. We&#8217;re building numerous wind farms in the UK and Europe and yet there still isn&#8217;t enough power for homes and businesses. America&#8217;s passion for Air conditioning causes brown-outs and black-outs in the Summer, even though they&#8217;re sitting on some of the largest Gas fields in the world.

So what&#8217;s the solution? Short term, it&#8217;s pretty obvious that we&#8217;re gong to have to recycle even more. You can&#8217;t expect government to sort it out for you. This issue is a People&#8217;s issue and the people have to show a single front, recycling their waste at home. It&#8217;;s the ONLY way we&#8217;ll reduce the mountain of waste we produce. Like energy consumption, it&#8217;s a lifestyle issue and I think the world&#8217;s government&#8217;s are going to have to change the way this is tackled. Given that many people in the west really don&#8217;t care enough, advertising will have to be the key and it&#8217;ll have to be hard hitting. It&#8217;s going to take an entire generation to change the way we live- by which time, it&#8217;ll be too late (if it isn&#8217;t already). I&#8217;m 34 and remember the winters being a lot longer here in the UK. Leaves used to fall in September/ October. It&#8217;s now November before the green really starts fading. spring arrived 3 weeks early this year, with daffodils showing in Feb.

Besides, even though the Uk is surrounded by water, we&#8217;re getting droughts all year round in some areas. Water is fast becoming a premium resource, rather a god given right. Of course, this is as much down to the water companies, who thanks to our government are now privatized- hence been taken over by international companies, looking to make a fast buck and then sell on the ailing company for a quick killing without ever lifting a finger to ensure that the network of pipes are repaired. at least the trees get a good watering from all those leaking pipes!

Heck, even the shrewdest of entrepreneurs can see a quick killing when it comes to Global Warming. Carbon offset schemes quickly took root around the world. donate to us and offset your carbon footprint. We&#8217;ll plant a tree in your memory! (Probably cut it down for firewood in few years&#8230; but hey, by then there will be a new fad for cutting your energy consumption) You want to talk Environmental issues&#8230;, I want to talk GLOBAL ECONOMY. You see, those who protest outside the G7 meetings have almost got it right. It&#8217;s not about fair trade or fair pay&#8230; it&#8217;s about global greed and financial wealth. we&#8217;re all after a fast buck, quick killing. Take a look at the stock markets. Day trading, CFDs etc have all replaced the long term investment strategy and as a result, no-one thinks ahead (past tomorrow that is). Financial investment only occurs when there&#8217;s a return, not when there&#8217;s a loss. Carbon offsetting is a great scheme for the rich to show they care. It sells more of their products- because the general public as a whole are gullible.

There&#8217;s only one way we&#8217;re going to dig ourselves out of this hole we&#8217;re in and that&#8217;s to prove there&#8217;s money in saving the planet- both in terms of a short term financial gain and also a long term one!