---
id: 1047
title: New Trend
date: 2015-04-17T04:43:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.wiseusemedia.com/?p=1047
permalink: /2015/04/17/new-trend/
categories:
  - General
---
Increasingly, we&#8217;re spending our waking hours worrying about the health of our environment. Maybe that&#8217;s because the ever-growing list of ecological concerns is keeping us up at night. To turn the tide, Americans are making a concerted effort to drive less, recycle more, and reduce our collective carbon footprint. But what if making a difference could be as easy as turning in for a night&#8217;s rest?

The green movement has now inspired a new approach to the design of the traditional mattress.The Boulder, Colorado-based retailer of environmentally friendly sleep products, is now offering natural mattresses that incorporate renewable resources and sustainable natural fibers throughout their construction. Unlike many memory foam mattress that use a variety of chemicals during the curing process, Beds are made chemical-free, offering you a healthier sleep environment over years of use. Inside every mattress are functional natural technologies like green tea extract that eliminates odor and keeps the sleeping surface feeling fresh. These beds look and sleep like the mattress you depend on now, but add Eco-friendly attributes to improve both their comfort and longevity. 

As a company, considers their products to be only part of their environmental commitment. They&#8217;ve rethought traditional shipping methods, compressing their natural fiber beds in to more efficient packaging that is recyclable. By reducing the size of the packaging, it&#8217;s able to ship their mattresses, sheets, pillows and other natural bedding to your door, eliminating the need for excess shipping facilities and delivery trucks. Not only does this reduce shipping costs, it also greatly shrinks the company&#8217;s carbon footprint in the process.